Welcome to Get started with TestFlight.
I'm Aneesha and I work on the App Store
Product Management Team.
I'm joined by my colleague Jerome
on the Developer Tools Product Management Team.
We're excited to share more
about TestFlight in this presentation.
For today's agenda, we will start with a brief overview
of the importance of testing
and an introduction to TestFlight.
And then we'll share how to use TestFlight
including how to distribute builds, add testers,
and view feedback.
So let's dive in.
Testing is essential
to creating high quality app experiences.
It's the process that allows your team to iterate on code
and incorporate feedback so you can deliver great apps
and experiences to your customers on the App Store.
The App Store is available in over 170 regions
on more than 1.5 billion devices and in over 40 languages.
That's a huge opportunity for people to discover your app
and that's also a ton of different people
with different devices, languages, and accessibility needs.
By testing your app, you can make sure you're providing
a great experience for App Store users around the world.
And to support your testing efforts,
Apple offers an expansive set of tools
to help you test your apps for.
For example, you can use Xcode to write unit and UI tests
with XCTest and then use Xcode Cloud to automate testing
after each code change.
You can manually test your code on different devices and OSs
with Simulator and use Instruments
to performance test your app.
Today we're gonna do a deep dive on TestFlight.
TestFlight is Apple's tool to help you gather feedback
from real people in a privacy friendly way
so you can create world class apps and games
that people on the App Store will love.
With TestFlight, you can get feedback
even before your app is live on the App Store
and use this information to update your app accordingly.
TestFlight is included
as part of your Apple Developer Program membership
and is one of the most popular developer tools
that we offer.
TestFlight allows you to distribute your app
across all Apple platforms and has been purpose built
to optimize the testing experience.
At a high level,
TestFlight allows you to upload your app's build,
add testers, and get feedback on an ongoing basis.
This helps you quickly and easily get tester feedback
to inform your decisions and develop world class apps
and games to publish on the App Store.
Next, let's walk through an example
of how to use TestFlight in more detail.
Jerome is gonna get us started.
Let's talk about using TestFlight.
And to illustrate this,
let's imagine we're preparing our new Food Truck app
for release on the App Store for the first time.
To get started, we'll first need to upload our build
and get it ready for testing.
There are three main steps around uploading a build
that we are going to cover;
uploading to App Store Connect, adding test details
and adding test information.
We'll first upload to App Store Connect using Xcode.
So let's open Xcode and create an archive of our app
in order to prepare it for distribution.
To do that, we'll first select the architecture
we want to build our app for.
Here, any iOS device arm64
and select Archive from the product top menu.
We'll then select the app and the build version
we want to send to TestFlight
and click the distribute app button on the right.
For TestFlight build, we'll select App Store Connect
as a distribution method so we can share the build
with both internal and external testers.
We'll share more information
about the types of testers later so for now,
let's click Next.
We'll select Upload to automatically send our build
to App Store Connect.
Before it can be uploaded, click Next to Xcode create
an app record for us.
We almost don't submitting a build, just a few more clicks.
We recommend including symbol files when uploading your app
so that App Store can add symbol names to crash reports
before delivering them to the Crashes Organizer in Xcode.
We'll also select Manage Version and Build Number
so the distribution assistant in Xcode can detect
whether our app has a valid build number.
If our app has an invalid number,
like one we previously used, the assistant will give us
the options to automatically increment it to a valid number.
By default, Automatically Manage Signing will be selected.
Xcode can manage our profiles and certificates for us
which is great.
And after we finish this,
Xcode uploads our build to App Store Connect.
Once our app is uploaded,
it's now ready to be tested using TestFlight.
When using Xcode to upload your build,
here's a few best practices to keep in mind.
Be sure to set your distribution method
to App Store Connect in order to use TestFlight.
Be mindful of version and build number.
When you upload a new build,
you always have to specify a build string
with a number greater than the previous build.
Be sure your certificates and profiles are up to date.
This is a common reason for upload issues.
One easy way to ensure the information is correct
is to let Xcode manage signing for you.
We have two more things we need to do
to get our build ready for testing.
Aneesha will share how we add test information
and how we get started testing.
To add test details,
we'll first go to App Store Connect to view our build.
To access TestFlight, we'll open our App Store Connect
app page and click on the TestFlight section at the top.
You can also access TestFlight
through the App Store Connect mobile app
in the TestFlight section of your app page.
Now we see our uploaded build in the TestFlight section
of the Food Truck app.
All builds uploaded to TestFlight are active for 90 days
before they expire.
If you wanna keep testing beyond 90 days,
simply upload an additional build.
Here you'll see the details of our newly uploaded build
including its status and when it expires.
We are going to click on the build to add our test details.
Adding test details helps our testers know
what to pay attention to when they test our app
which helps us get more valuable feedback.
Let's go ahead and add some in for this build.
This is our first time releasing this app
so let's mention that.
And we also just started allowing users to change the design
of the Food Truck
so let's mention that in our test details too.
Filling out test details specific to your build is important
because it is the first thing testers see
when they go to test your app.
Looks good, now we hit Save.
Here are some best practices to keep in mind
as you add test details.
Update your test details on a per build basis.
Since test details are associated with a build,
this is your opportunity to tell testers
how they can provide you with meaningful feedback.
When coming up with test details,
we recommend keeping it simple.
You might try using short sentences or bullets
to make it readable and draw in potential testers.
You should also call out any particular features to test
or any known issues to be aware of.
This helps testers understand what they should explore
and allows them to focus their efforts.
One last thing, before we share our build with testers,
we need to add test information for our app.
To do that, we'll click on the Test Information section
under General Information.
We will need to add our beta app description
and an email address.
The beta app description will be visible to a tester
from the TestFlight app and any tester feedback
sent via email will go to the feedback email address
we enter here.
And while not required now, we will need to fill out
the beta app review information section
before we can distribute our app to external testers.
We only have to update the test information page
one time per app and again if the information changes.
And with that, our build is ready to start testing.
With our build uploaded and configured for testing,
now we can add testers.
You can add two types of testers to TestFlight,
internal and external.
Since our app is still fairly new,
let's start by getting feedback from a few people
within our team.
We'll add them to our app as internal testers.
Let's learn a little bit more about internal testers.
Internal testers are part of your App Store Connect team
and you can designate up to 100 team members
as internal testers for your app.
Each internal tester can install builds
and test them on up to 30 devices
and since these testers are part of your team,
you can choose to automatically distribute
all new builds to them.
To add internal testers,
we'll first need to create an internal group.
To do that, we'll go to the TestFlight section
in App Store Connect and click the plus button
next to Internal Testing
to create a new internal testing group.
Groups are a powerful tool because they allow us
to create repeatable testing processes.
We'll add a group name
and keep the Enable Automatic Distribution button checked
and then click Create.
Now we have an internal group.
Since we selected Enable Automatic Distribution,
our build has already been added to this group.
Moving forward, this internal group will automatically
get access to all builds we upload
without having to add them one by one.
With our group created, now we have to add testers
so let's click on the blue plus button next to Testers
to see who we can add.
All of our App Store Connect team members
with the roles of admin, app manager, developer or marketing
will appear here as testers we can add.
We can add up to 100 total internal testers per app.
Let's select Jerome, Melissa and myself
and add us to this group.
Now we are testers for our internal group.
In the status column, you'll see that we've been invited.
After I add testers, they'll receive an email invite
to test our Food Truck app.
The email includes a link to view our app in TestFlight.
When a tester opens the TestFlight app to accept
the invitation and install the Food Truck app,
the first thing they see is the What to Test section.
This section includes the test details we have added
when setting up our build.
So even before our app is installed,
we've had an opportunity to help testers understand
how to provide valuable feedback.
Testers can also view more details about the app.
For example, the beta app description that we added
in the test information section of TestFlight.
Once Jerome and Melissa get our invite
and install the Food Truck app, we have our first testers.
With our app in the hands of some testers,
now is a good time to see how feedback works in TestFlight.
Testers can submit feedback in multiple ways.
First, via the TestFlight app
with the Submit Feedback button.
Feedback submitted in this way will be sent to the email
we specified in the test information section of the app.
Testers can also take a screenshot while testing your app.
In the screenshot previewer, testers can edit
and add markups to provide more information.
With this method, testers have the option to share
the screenshot and any comments directly to TestFlight.
If our Food Truck app crashes,
testers can submit a crash report.
They can agree to send a report and add feedback
about the context of the crash.
The group's page is a great place to get a summary
of tester engagement and feedback for our app.
By looking at the status column,
we can see that both Jerome and Melissa
have installed our build and they have been testing it.
We can see the counts of sessions, crashes and feedback
by tester and the number of sessions and crashes
attributed per build.
It looks like we have a few crashes
and feedbacks to investigate, so let's go do that.
Let's first go to the crashes page
under the feedback section on the left side.
Here we can see all crashes our testers have submitted
and quickly see the crash details summarized in a table.
We can then use the filters at the top to view crashes
by platform, build or device.
I can select this crash to see
the details of the crash report submitted by Jerome
including things like time zone, battery percentage
and connection type.
These details can really come in handy
as we try to understand why this app crashed.
Similarly, we can go to the screenshots page to view
screenshot feedback provided by our testers.
Like with crash feedback, we can filter by fields
like device, build and OS version
to view a subset of feedback.
This can help inform changes we might make
to our next build.
We can also select a screenshot to inspect it more closely.
From the screenshot details view, we can download the image
to our device with the download button
on the top right corner and even open in Xcode Organizer
using the Open in Xcode button.
In Xcode Organizer, we can see the selected screenshot
and the other visual feedback and crashes
for the Food Truck app.
Here I can write notes to my development team
and mark feedback is resolved
as we make our way through addressing them.
Look at that, we've gotten through our first round
of testing with TestFlight.
Our internal testers gave us some really great feedback
to incorporate.
Remember, TestFlight is also designed to scale
and support your testing needs.
So let's expand our testing audience
and share our app with testers outside of our team.
To do that, we're going to add external testers
to our build.
An external tester is any tester outside of your team
that you invite to beta test your app.
You can invite up to 10,000 external testers per app.
And with external testers, there are two methods to invite;
invitation or public link
and we'll touch on both of those differences shortly.
Before testing with external testers can begin,
you submit your build to App Review.
This keeps TestFlight a safe and trusted place for testers
to participate in testing.
One last thing to keep in mind,
in TestFlight, testers can test
your in-app purchase experiences without incurring charges.
This can really help you improve these experiences
before they go live on the store.
Once our build has gone through App Review,
we can create an external group and start adding testers.
Like we did with internal testing,
we'll click on the blue plus button
next to the External Testing section to create a new group.
Let's invite some chefs to test our app.
We're gonna go ahead and call this group Chef Testers
and then click Create.
For all external groups, we need to manually add the builds
we'd like the group of testers to access.
Most of the sections for this group
are similar to an internal group but we can see
that there's a new section called Public Link.
Public Link is another way to distribute your app
to external testers in addition to email.
Unlike with email invites,
you don't need a tester's email to invite them
using a public link.
Instead, you generate a specific link
with an enrollment limit and anyone who clicks on the link
can enroll and be a tester for the app.
You can choose to share the link however you like
such as your social channels or even email campaigns.
Once enrolled, these testers have the option
to stay anonymous when providing you with feedback.
Let's create a public link for our chef testers.
To do that, we'll select the Enable Public Link button.
We'll click Enable again to confirm
that we wanna create a public link for this group
and then we set our tester limit.
This is the maximum number of people
who will be able to enroll using this link.
You can set this limit as low as one and up to 10,000.
We're gonna start with 100.
It's always good to start with a smaller group of testers
and then expand.
And don't worry, you can always edit the limit
once you create the group and testing progresses.
Once we click Set Limit,
we have the URL we can use to invite testers.
I'm gonna share the link on my social media
to invite people to test our Food Truck app.
When someone clicks on the link,
they'll be directed to download TestFlight
if they haven't already
and then they can download our Food Truck app.
Feedback provided by external testers appears
in the same place as internal tester feedback and crashes
so we already know what to do and how to use it
to improve our app.
Once we use this information and diagnostics
to improve our Food Truck app and maybe go through
a few more rounds of testing,
we are ready to publish it on the App Store.
Since we used TestFlight for testing,
our build is already uploaded to App Store Connect
so it'll just take us a few steps to submit for publishing
on the App Store.
We'll go to the App Store tab in App Store Connect
and complete the details on the page.
Again, since we've already uploaded our build to TestFlight,
we won't need to upload it again.
Instead, we will select the build from the dropdown menu
when prompted.
Once we're done, we'll click Submit for Review
and that's it.
Remember, testing is not a one and done experience.
It's a best practice
as part of your ongoing development cycle
even after your app is published on the App Store.
As you consider incorporating TestFlight into your testing
and release process, we wanted to share an additional way
to make your testing efforts even easier.
For that, I'll pass it back to Jerome.
This year we also introduced an easier way
to upload your app to TestFlight and App Store Connect,
Xcode Cloud.
Xcode Cloud is a continuous integration and delivery service
built into Xcode and design expressly for Apple developers.
It accelerates the development and delivery
of high quality apps by bringing together cloud-based tools
that helps you build apps, ran automated test in parallel,
and deliver apps to testers.
It's a perfect companion for TestFlight.
Xcode Cloud works with workflows,
a configuration that tells Xcode Cloud
which action to perform and when to perform them.
Let's create a workflow for Food Truck.
This is a default workflow.
Workflows are made up of a start condition,
a build environment, the sets of actions to be performed
and post-actions such as deployments and notifications.
By default, there is no post-action
so let's edit our workflow
and add a post-action for TestFlight deployment.
First, in the archive action,
I'm going to change the deployment preparation
for TestFlight build.
I want this workflow to be used for internal deployment only
so I'll choose the Internal Testing Only option.
If I want to prepare my build for external testing
or for the App Store,
I would choose the TestFlight and App Store option.
Then I can click on the Post-Action plus sign
and select what I want to do after the archive step.
In that case, TestFlight internal testing.
Then I select a specific group of testers for this workflow,
here our QA team we created earlier and click Add.
Once my workflow is triggered by my start condition,
Xcode Cloud will build my app and automatically upload it
to App Store Connect and my QA team will be notified
of a new build in TestFlight.
I just click Save and that's it.
Xcode Cloud can be accessed directly from Xcode
and also an App Store Connect
right next to the TestFlight app.
For more information on Xcode Cloud and workflows,
you can check out those WWDC videos.
As you incorporate TestFlight
into your ongoing development cycle,
here are a few things to keep in mind.
Start small, then expand.
If you're making a large change to your app
or introducing new features,
consider adding testers over time so you can test
these changes before distributing to all 10,000 testers.
Remember, external testers are also your potential users
so you want to be mindful of their experience.
Know what you want to accomplish with each build and test,
this will help you create a smoother testing process.
Use groups to create repeatable testing processes,
groups are a great way to manage your testers
and quickly distribute builds.
Once you set up a group and add testers to it,
you can start the testing cycle and share new builds
with testers more quickly.
And finally, try Xcode Cloud in your development process.
This will help you automate your TestFlight workflows
and could reduce the time between your releases,
improving the overall quality of your apps.
We hope this presentation has helped you better understand
how you can use TestFlight to engage testers
and get valuable feedback on your beta apps.
For more information on TestFlight, links to documentation
and more, check out the Apple developer website.